Would it have been worth while,
But though I have wept and fasted, wept and prayed,
Though I have seen my head (grown slightly bald) brought in upon a platter,
Stretched on the floor, here beside you and me.
Is it perfume from a dress

For the yellow smoke that slides along the street,
And I have known the eyes already, known them all—
If one, settling a pillow by her head

(They will say: “But how his arms and legs are thin!”)
Arms that are braceleted and white and bare
I do not think that they will sing to me.
Of insidious intent
Asleep ... tired ... or it malingers,
When I am pinned and wriggling on the wall,
To prepare a face to meet the faces that you meet;
               And should I then presume?
My morning coat, my collar mounting firmly to the chin,
Oh, do not ask, “What is it?”
And I have known the arms already, known them all—
In the room the women come and go
When the wind blows the water white and black.
               That is not it, at all.”
Shall I say, I have gone at dusk through narrow streets
At times, indeed, almost ridiculous—
I should have been a pair of ragged claws
There will be time to murder and create,
Till human voices wake us, and we drown.
And would it have been worth it, after all,
Then how should I begin
Beneath the music from a farther room.
And indeed there will be time
To spit out all the butt-ends of my days and ways?
               That is not what I meant, at all.”
If one, settling a pillow or throwing off a shawl,
In the room the women come and go
That makes me so digress?
To say: “I am Lazarus, come from the dead,
I am no prophet — and here’s no great matter;
I grow old ... I grow old ...
I shall wear the bottoms of my trousers rolled.
I have measured out my life with coffee spoons;
I shall wear white flannel trousers, and walk upon the beach.
For I have known them all already, known them all:
Come back to tell you all, I shall tell you all”—
For decisions and revisions which a minute will reverse.
I have heard the mermaids singing, each to each.
Let us go and make our visit.
The yellow fog that rubs its back upon the window-panes,
Advise the prince; no doubt, an easy tool,
And when I am formulated, sprawling on a pin,
To wonder, “Do I dare?” and, “Do I dare?”
We have lingered in the chambers of the sea
Time for you and time for me,
And time yet for a hundred indecisions,
After the novels, after the teacups, after the skirts that trail along the floor—
And seeing that it was a soft October night,
Among the porcelain, among some talk of you and me,
Disturb the universe?
Smoothed by long fingers, 
Before the taking of a toast and tea.
But as if a magic lantern threw the nerves in patterns on a screen:
To lead you to an overwhelming question ...
And this, and so much more?—
And sawdust restaurants with oyster-shells:
And would it have been worth it, after all,
My necktie rich and modest, but asserted by a simple pin —
Have the strength to force the moment to its crisis?
Licked its tongue into the corners of the evening,

I know the voices dying with a dying fall

Combing the white hair of the waves blown back
Curled once about the house, and fell asleep.
And the afternoon, the evening, sleeps so peacefully!
Let us go, through certain half-deserted streets,

Rubbing its back upon the window-panes;
I have seen the moment of my greatness flicker,
And for a hundred visions and revisions,
Almost, at times, the Fool.
To roll it towards some overwhelming question,
               And how should I presume?
And in short, I was afraid.

After the cups, the marmalade, the tea,
And I have seen the eternal Footman hold my coat, and snicker,
Like a patient etherized upon a table;

Arms that lie along a table, or wrap about a shawl.
(They will say: “How his hair is growing thin!”)
Lingered upon the pools that stand in drains,
No! I am not Prince Hamlet, nor was meant to be;
Of lonely men in shirt-sleeves, leaning out of windows? ...
And turning toward the window, should say:

It is impossible to say just what I mean!
Should I, after tea and cakes and ices,
The yellow smoke that rubs its muzzle on the window-panes,
Slipped by the terrace, made a sudden leap,
The eyes that fix you in a formulated phrase,
Do I dare
In a minute there is time
Time to turn back and descend the stair,
And time for all the works and days of hands
Would it have been worth while

Scuttling across the floors of silent seas.
To have bitten off the matter with a smile,
Full of high sentence, but a bit obtuse;
And indeed there will be time
By sea-girls wreathed with seaweed red and brown
Talking of Michelangelo.
After the sunsets and the dooryards and the sprinkled streets,
               So how should I presume?
When the evening is spread out against the sky
Let fall upon its back the soot that falls from chimneys,
Politic, cautious, and meticulous;
To have squeezed the universe into a ball
Have known the evenings, mornings, afternoons,

Of restless nights in one-night cheap hotels

               And how should I begin
Let us go then, you and I,
               “That is not it at all,
To swell a progress, start a scene or two,
Streets that follow like a tedious argument

With a bald spot in the middle of my hair —
Would it have been worth while,
Am an attendant lord, one that will do
That lift and drop a question on your plate;

               Should say: “That is not what I meant at all;
(But in the lamplight, downed with light brown hair!)

Deferential, glad to be of use,

I have seen them riding seaward on the waves
The muttering retreats
There will be time, there will be time
And watched the smoke that rises from the pipes
Shall I part my hair behind?   Do I dare to eat a peach?
Talking of Michelangelo.

