With faces turned sideways or backward towards me, to listen,
Yet sailing to other shores to annex the same—yet welcoming every new
My comrade!
And sexual organs and acts! do you concentrate in me—for I am determined
For your life, adhere to me;
        grape!
        brother;
Of earths, rocks, fifth-month flowers, experienced—stars, rain, snow, my
Countless masses debouch upon them;
        California;
These ostensible realities, politics, points?
Here is what sings unrestricted faith.
        return in the body and the soul,
        pealing shouts;
Chants of the long-running Mississippi, and down to the Mexican Sea;
Hoping to cease not till death.
Observing shows, births, improvements, structures, arts,
Land of the eastern Chesapeake! Land of the Delaware!
Nor land, nor man or woman, without religion.
        to the soul;
Must not Nature be persuaded many times?
Crossing the prairies—dwelling again in Chicago—dwelling in every town,
Hereby applying these leaves to the new ones, from the hour they unite with
O now I triumph—and you shall also;
The side by side! the elder and younger brothers! the bony-limbed!
Not he with a daily kiss onward from childhood kissing me
        you—but what of that?
        to consume me;
These selecting—these, in hints, demanded of me.
Each is not for its own sake; I say the whole earth, and all the stars in the sky, are for religion's sake.I say no man has ever yet been half devout enough;
Prophetic spirit of materials shifting and flickering around me;
Any more than I am held to the heavens, to the spiritual world,
And I will not make a poem, nor the least part of a poem, but has reference
Land of the ocean shores! Land of sierras and peaks!
The SOUL! For ever and for ever—longer than soil is brown and solid—longer than water ebbs and flows.I will make the poems of materials, for I think they are to be the most
Mysterious ocean where the streams empty;
        spring;
And that all the things of the universe are perfect miracles, each as
O expanding and swift! O henceforth,
Starting from fish-shape Paumanok, where I was born,
        death.
Dead poets, philosophs, priests,
Otherwise there is no real and permanent grandeur;
And for the Past, I pronounce what the air holds of the red aborigines.
Land of Ontario, Erie, Huron, Michigan!
Living beings, identities, now doubtless near us in the air, that we know
As in a dream, they change, they swiftly fill;
What are you doing, young man?
        land and sea—And I will report all heroism from an American point
I, now thirty-six years old, in perfect health begin,
A world primal again—vistas of glory, incessant and branching;
        or mounting the Northern Pacific, to Sitka, to Aliaska;
Victory, union, faith, identity, time,
Whoever you are! to you endless announcements.Daughter of the lands, did you wait for your poet?
As I have walked in Alabama my morning walk, I have seen where the she-bird, the mocking-bird, sat on her nest in the briars, hatching her brood. I have seen the he-bird also; I have paused to hear him, near at hand, inflating his throat, and joyfully singing.And while I paused, it came to me that what he really sang for was not
Chants going forth from the centre, from Kansas, and thence, equidistant,
        the earth,
The ever-tending, the finale of visible forms;
        in me;
        than death;
        reference to ensemble:
See, revolving, the globe;
O the lands! interlinked, food-yielding lands!
Yes, here comes my mistress, the Soul.
O all and each well-loved by me! my intrepid nations! O I at any rate
And I will make a song for the ears of the President, full of weapons with
Aware of the buffalo herds, grazing the plains—the hirsute and strong-
Splashing my bare feet in the edge of the summer ripples, on Paumanok's
Shooting in pulses of fire, ceaseless, to vivify all.
        Colorado winds!
O such themes! Equalities!
After what they have done to me, suggesting themes.
I will make the songs of passion, to give them their way, And your songs, outlawed offenders—for I scan you with kindred eyes, and carry you with me the same as any.I will make the true poem of riches,— To earn for the body and the mind whatever adheres, and goes forward, and is not dropped by death.I will effuse egotism, and show it underlying all—and I will be the bard
And behind the weapons countless dissatisfied faces:
No dainty dolce affettuoso I;
Toward the male of the States, and toward the female of the States,
I believe These are to found their own ideal of manly love, indicating it
Far-breathed land! Arctic-braced! Mexican-breezed! the diverse! the
For the brood beyond us and of us,
        city large and small;
For who but I should understand love, with all its sorrow and joy?
Omnes! Omnes! let others ignore what they may;
        pass them forward.
        not of;
I am myself just as much evil as good, and my nation is—And I say there is
Having studied the mocking-bird's tones, and the mountain hawk's,
And to the identities of the Gods, my lovers, faithful and true,
Yet upon the plains west of the spinal river—yet in my house of adobie,
        of personality;
I sat studying at the feet of the great masters:
        the old ones;
Because, having looked at the objects of the universe, I find there is no
Aware of the fresh free giver, the flowing Missouri—aware of mighty
Dear son! do you think it is love?
Are you so earnest—so given up to literature, science, art, amours?
        religion;
Enjoining you to acts, characters, spectacles, with me.
My tongue, every atom of my blood, formed from this soil, this air,
Well-begotten, and raised by a perfect mother;
For not all matter is fuel to heat, impalpable flame, the essential life of
Ma femme!
And I will not sing with reference to a day, but with reference to all
O something ecstatic and undemonstrable! O music wild!
Live words—words to the lands.
On my way a moment I pause;
I will sing the song of companionship;
With firm and regular step they wend—they never stop,
Another generation playing its part, and passing on in its turn,
A charge transmitted, and gift occult, for those being born.
None has ever yet adored or worshipped half enough;
Nor for his mate nor himself only, nor all sent back by the echoes;
Eternal progress, the kosmos, and the modern reports.
Mélange mine own! the unseen and the seen;
        Connecticut!
This, then, is life;
Your ambition or business, whatever it may be?
Walking New England, a friend, a traveller,
        the same,
Coming among the new ones myself, to be their companion and equal—coming
I, exultant, to be ready for them, will now shake out carols stronger and
Any more than a man's substance and life, or a woman's substance and life,
O to haste, firm holding—to haste, haste on, with me.
Land of boatmen and sailors! Fishermen's land!
        haughtier than have ever yet been heard upon earth.
Here is what has come to the surface after so many throes and convulsions.
After roaming many lands—lover of populous pavements;
        one, nor any particle of one, but has reference to the soul.
        go to the wars;
For you, to share with me, two greatnesses—and a third one, rising
        compact,
I am the credulous man of qualities, ages, races;
I will therefore let flame from me the burning fires that were threatening
        fitting spheres,
Yet a true son either of Maine, or of the Granite State, or of the
In the Year 80 of the States,
How curious! how real!
For such I afford whoever can persevere to win them.
Martyrs, artists, inventors, governments long since,
Yourself, the present and future lands, the indissoluble compacts, riches,
Or if there is, I say it is just as important to you, to the land, or to
See! steamers steaming through my poems! See in my poems immigrants continually coming and landing; See in arriere, the wigwam, the trail, the hunter's hut, the flat-boat, the maize-leaf, the claim, the rude fence, and the backwoods village; See, on the one side the Western Sea, and on the other the Eastern Sea, how they advance and retreat upon my poems, as upon their own shores; See pastures and forests in my poems—See animals, wild and tame—See, beyond the Kanzas, countless herds of buffalo, feeding on short curly grass; See, in my poems, cities, solid, vast, inland, with paved streets, with iron and stone edifices, ceaseless vehicles, and commerce; See the many-cylindered steam printing-press—See the electric telegraph, stretching across the Continent, from the Western Sea to Manhattan; See, through Atlantica's depths, pulses American, Europe reaching—pulses of Europe, duly returned; See the strong and quick locomotive, as it departs, panting, blowing the steam-whistle; See ploughmen, ploughing farms—See miners, digging mines—See the numberless factories; See mechanics, busy at their benches, with tools—See, from among them, superior judges, philosophs, Presidents, emerge, dressed in working dresses; See, lounging through the shops and fields of the States, me, well-beloved, close-held by day and night; Hear the loud echoes of my songs there! Read the hints come at last.
        none in the future;
Carrying what has accrued to it from the moment of birth to the moment of
        of view;
Or rude in my home in Dakotah's woods, my diet meat, my drink from the
Was somebody asking to see the Soul? See! your own shape and countenance—persons, substances, beasts, the trees, the running rivers, the rocks and sands.All hold spiritual joys, and afterwards loosen them:
Democracy!
        amaze;
O you and me at last—and us two only.
        mystery,
I will not make poems with reference to parts;
These my voice announcing—I will sleep no more, but arise; You oceans that have been calm within me! how I feel you, fathomless, stirring, preparing unprecedented waves and storms.
For I think I shall then supply myself with the poems of my soul, and of
And I will make the poems of my body and of mortality,
(Retiring back a while, sufficed at what they are, but never forgotten.)
See, vast trackless spaces;
The satisfier, after due long-waiting, now advancing,
But I will make leaves, poems, poemets, songs, says, thoughts, with
For me an audience interminable.
Contact daily and hourly that will not release me;
        circumstances be subjected to another State;
I stand in my place, with my own day, here.
        immortality.
And I will show that, whatever happens to anybody, it may be turned to
        with you.
I will lift what has too long kept down those smouldering fires;
The Mississippian and Arkansian yet with me—and I yet with any of them;
        future is.
With me, with firm holding—yet haste, haste on.
Has winded and twisted around me that which holds me to him,
I make the poem of evil also—I commemorate that part also;
O strain, musical, flowing through ages—now reaching hither,
I cannot be discharged from you—not from one, any sooner than another!
I have perused it—own it is admirable, (moving awhile among it;)
And I will show that there is no imperfection in the present—and can be
I will write the evangel-poem of comrades and of love;
Who knows? they may rise from me yet, and soar above everything.
I too, following many, and followed by many, inaugurate a Religion—I too
        profound as any.
I will acknowledge contemporary lands;
However high the head of any else, that head is over all.
Behold! the body includes and is the meaning, the main concern—and includes and is the soul; Whoever you are! how superb and how divine is your body, or any part of it.
        Narragansett Bay State, or of the Empire State;
I conned old times;
Land of the Old Thirteen! Massachusetts land! Land of Vermont and
For you a programme of chants.
O Death! O!—for all that, I am yet of you unseen, this hour, with
The red aborigines! Leaving natural breaths, sounds of rain and winds, calls as of birds and animals in the woods, syllabled to us for names; Okonee, Koosa, Ottawa, Monongahela, Sauk, Natchez, Chattahoochee, Kaqueta, Oronoco, Wabash, Miami, Saginaw, Chippewa, Oshkosh, Walla-Walla; Leaving such to the States, they melt, they depart, charging the water and the land with names.
I harbour, for good or bad—I permit to speak, at every hazard—
Under foot the divine soil—over head the sun.
Land of coal and iron! Land of gold! Lands of cotton, sugar, rice!
Of and through the States, as during life—each man and woman my
A new race, dominating previous ones, and grander far, with new contests,
I take to your reckless and composite chords—I add to them, and cheerfully
O a word to clear one's path ahead endlessly!
Still the Present I raise aloft—still the Future of the States I harbinge,
        Niagara
The great women's land! the feminine! the experienced sisters and the
Resolute, warlike one, including and over all;
Listen, dear son—listen, America, daughter or son! It is a painful thing to love a man or woman to excess—and yet it satisfies—it is great; But there is something else very great—it makes the whole coincide; It, magnificent, beyond materials, with continuous hands, sweeps and provides for all.
Take my leaves, America! take them South, and take them North!
Foremost! century marches! Libertad! masses!
beautiful results—and I will show that nothing can happen more beautiful
O hand in hand—O wholesome pleasure—O one more desirer and lover!
The present and future continents, north and south, with the isthmus
They are now covered with the foremost people, arts, institutions, known.
        there only,
Dweller in Mannahatta, city of ships, my city,—or on southern savannas;
include you all with perfect love!
Land of wheat, beef, pork! Land of wool and hemp! Land of the apple and
And who but I should be the poet of comrades?
        hither:
I will give them complete abandonment;
See, projected through time,
Know you: to drop in the earth the germs of a greater religion,
Indifferently before death and after death.
        days;
Now, if eligible, O that the great masters might return and study me!
        other;
I advance from the people en masse in their own spirit;
Nor character, nor life worthy the name, without religion;
Creeds and schools in abeyance,
        to tell you with courageous clear voice, to prove you illustrious.
To be wrestled with as I pass, for the solid prizes of the universe;
The Louisianian, the Georgian, as near to me, and I as near to him and her,
Land of the pastoral plains, the grass-fields of the world! Land of those
Americanos! conquerors! marches humanitarian;
        compact!
Born here of parents born here, from parents the same, and their parents
It is well—Against such I say not a word—I am their poet also;
The ancestor-continents, away, grouped together;
O Camerado close!
Did you wait for one with a flowing mouth and indicative hand?
        deserves;
        sweet-aired interminable plateaus!
Solitary, singing in the West, I strike up for a New World.
One generation playing its part, and passing on,
O warblings under the sun—ushered, as now, or at noon, or setting!
With eyes retrospective towards me.
Elements, breeds, adjustments, turbulent, quick, and audacious;
        me, as anything else.
Of your real body, and any man's or woman's real body,
In the name of these States, shall I scorn the antique?
I will show what alone must finally compact these;
Item for item, it will elude the hands of the corpse-cleaners, and pass to
        between all the States, and between any two of them;
        inclusive and more resplendent,
Here the heirship and heiress-ship of the world—here the flame of
None has begun to think how divine he himself is, and how certain the
And I will show of male and female that either is but the equal of the
        neighbour,
But behold! such swiftly subside—burnt up for religion's sake;
What do you need, Camerado?
Or withdrawn to muse and meditate in some deep recess,
It may be I am destined to utter the loudest cries thereof, the winner's
Here for you! and here for America!
Lands where the north-west Columbia winds, and where the south-west
I dare not proceed till I respectfully credit what you have left, wafted
Any more than such are to religion.
        between.
Far from the clank of crowds, intervals passing, rapt and happy;
Land of the herd, the garden, the healthy house of adobie!
        personally to you now;
        inexperienced sisters!
Nature now without check, with original energy.
        breasted bull;
The greatness of Love and Democracy—and the greatness of Religion.
And employments! I will put in my poems, that with you is heroism, upon
Chants of the prairies;
I will trail the whole geography of the globe, and salute courteously every
        sands,
And heard at dusk the unrivalled one, the hermit thrush, from the
And a song make I, of the One formed out of all;
        irrepressible love,
Not the types set up by the printer return their impression, the meaning,
Bearded, sunburnt, gray-necked, forbidding, I have arrived,
Here spirituality, the translatress, the openly-avowed,
And I will make a song that there shall be comity by day and by night
O amazement of things! O divine average!
        materials;
        glad and sublime;
Language-shapers on other shores,
Why, these are the children of the antique, to justify it.
        swamp-cedars,
Here lands female and male;
Yet returning eastward—yet in the Sea-Side State, or in Maryland,
Near at hand to you a throat is now inflating itself and joyfully singing.
Inextricable lands! the clutched together! the passionate ones!
Chants of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin, and Minnesota;
Surround them, East and West! for they would surround you;
And you precedents! connect lovingly with them, for they connect lovingly
I may have to be persuaded many times before I consent to give myself to
Make welcome for them everywhere, for they are your own offspring;
The Pennsylvanian! the Virginian! the double Carolinian!
Successions of men, Americanos, a hundred millions;
I say that the real and permanent grandeur of these States must be their
How can the real body ever die, and be buried?
Listening to the orators and the oratresses in public halls,
What do you seek, so pensive and silent?
Or a soldier camped, or carrying my knapsack and gun—or a miner in
Yet Canadian cheerily braving the winter—the snow and ice welcome to me,
        menacing points,
Of all the men of the earth, I only can unloose you and toughen you;
Regarding it all intently a long while, then dismissing it,
Think nothing can ever be greater—nothing can ever deserve more than it
New politics, new literatures and religions, new inventions and arts.
But subtle, clandestine, away beyond,
        the main concern,
The following chants, each for its kind, I sing.
I will make a song for these States, that no one State may under any
Nations once powerful, now reduced, withdrawn, or desolate,
The fanged and glittering one whose head is over all;
        spiritual poems;
And I will thread a thread through my poems that time and events are
        in fact no evil,
For those who belong here, and those to come,
